.TH GIT-CHECKPOINT 1 "March 2026" "git-checkpoint" "Git Manual"

.SH NAME
git-checkpoint \- commit the current working state with a proper message

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B git checkpoint
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ context ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Commit the current working state with a proper AI-generated commit message.
Designed for intentional moments during development: a fix is verified,
a feature works, you're about to switch context, or you need to deploy.
.PP
Unlike
.BR git-upload (1),
this command only commits locally \(em it never pushes unless
.B \-\-push
is specified.
.PP
The AI prompt reads recent commit history and the staged diff to write
a commit message that continues the project's narrative thread, following
the same quality standards as
.BR git-upload\ \-ai .

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-m " message"
Use this message instead of generating one with AI.
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-all
Stage all tracked changes before committing (equivalent to
.BR "git add \-u" ).
.TP
.B \-\-push
Push after committing. Delegates to
.BR git-upload (1)
if available, otherwise calls
.BR "git push" .
.TP
.B \-\-dry\-run
Show what would be committed without actually committing.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-verify
Skip pre-commit and commit-msg hooks.
.TP
.B \-\-status
Show whether checkpoint is enabled and current configuration.
.TP
.B \-\-enable
Enable checkpoint for this repository (sets
.BR checkpoint.enabled =true
in git config).
.TP
.B \-\-disable
Disable checkpoint for this repository.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show usage information.

.SH CONFIGURATION
Per-repository settings via
.BR "git config" :
.TP
.B checkpoint.enabled
Gate for the command. When
.I false
the command exits immediately. Default:
.IR true .
.TP
.B checkpoint.push
Always push after committing. Default:
.IR false .
.TP
.B checkpoint.sign
GPG-sign commits. Default:
.IR false .

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B GIT_UPLOAD_AI_CMD
Override the AI command used to generate commit messages. By default uses
GitHub Copilot CLI.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Stage everything and commit with an AI message:
.EX
git checkpoint -a
.EE
.TP
Commit with a manual message:
.EX
git checkpoint -m "Fix login redirect loop"
.EE
.TP
Commit and push:
.EX
git checkpoint -a --push
.EE
.TP
Preview what would be committed:
.EX
git checkpoint --dry-run
.EE
.TP
Provide extra context for the AI:
.EX
git checkpoint "finished the auth rework"
.EE
.TP
Enable/disable per repo:
.EX
git checkpoint --enable
git checkpoint --disable
.EE

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR git-upload (1),
.BR git-commit (1)
