.TH GIT-COPILOT-DEVOPS-AUDIT 1 "March 2026" "git-copilot-devops-audit" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
git-copilot-devops-audit \- Audit and rewrite all Copilot AI configuration in a repository
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B git-copilot-devops-audit
[\fB\-f\fR | \fB\-\-force\fR]
[\fB\-\-no\-install\fR]
[\fB\-\-dry\-run\fR]
[\fB\-v\fR | \fB\-\-verbose\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B git-copilot-devops-audit
prepares a repository-local audit snapshot for GitHub Copilot customization files
and installs a multi-agent audit system in the VS Code user profile.

The audit uses a private orchestrator with two public entry paths: a natural-language
router instruction and a slash-command fallback.
.TP
.B /copilot-devops-audit
Manual public entrypoint. Runs the audit and delegates to the private audit worker agents.
.TP
.B Natural-language audit router
User-level instruction that detects audit-style requests in normal chat and routes
them through the audit workflow when Copilot routing matches the request. This path
is best-effort rather than guaranteed. When it matches, the main chat session stays
the coordinator and invokes the private audit worker agents directly.
.TP
.B @DevOpsAuditContext
Context subagent. Reads the project and current Copilot customization files and
returns a detailed inventory for the rest of the audit pipeline.
.TP
.B @DevOpsAuditResearch
Research subagent. Fetches current Copilot docs, samples repositories, validates
model IDs, and builds an evidence-backed research cache.
.TP
.B @DevOpsAuditEvaluate
Evaluation subagent. Reads every Copilot customization file and produces
structured findings against quality criteria.
.TP
.B @DevOpsAuditImplement
Implementation subagent. Applies targeted edits to \fI.github/\fR files based on findings
from the evaluator.
.PP
The audit tooling is global on purpose. It audits the current workspace, but it
should not create repository-local copies of its own agent or prompt files during
normal use. The repository-local support files produced by this command are the
audit snapshot at \fI.github/devops-audit-context.md\fR and the persistent research
cache at \fI.github/devops-audit-research.md\fR. When the shared community cache
is configured, the command also refreshes a local bootstrap copy at
\fI.github/devops-audit-community-seed.md\fR plus adjacent JSON support files.
Audit findings themselves are returned in chat rather than written to a
repository-local report file.

The context snapshot is intentionally lightweight. It points the audit at the
right workspace files and current inventory, but it should not duplicate the full
contents of every customization file. The context phase is expected to read the
workspace directly rather than rely on large pasted snapshots.

During an audit run, the orchestrator has full authority to clean, consolidate,
rewrite, or delete files under \fI.github/\fR. It may also relocate misplaced
GitHub customization files from outside \fI.github/\fR into their intended home
when that move is clearly correct and does not require updating source, scripts,
or docs. If such a move is risky or ambiguous, the audit must report and escalate
it instead of forcing the change.

Running this command installs the following VS Code Copilot integration points:
.TP
.B Natural-language audit router
A user-level instructions file in \fI~/.copilot/instructions/\fR.
It detects audit-style natural-language requests and routes them through the
audit workflow while keeping the main chat session as coordinator.
.TP
.B /copilot-devops-audit
A reusable prompt file in the VS Code user profile.
Type \fB/copilot-devops-audit\fR in VS Code Copilot Chat to invoke the audit.
.TP
.B Private audit worker agents
Internal custom agents used only as slash-command workers. They are not intended
to appear as public chat entrypoints.
.PP
When installed through the macOS package, the installer also attempts to install or
update the GitHub Copilot extensions and run \fBgit copilot-devops-audit --update-agent --force\fR
for the logged-in macOS user so the global audit surfaces are available immediately.
If that automatic postinstall step cannot complete, run the same command manually.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-force
Overwrite existing audit files (context, global agent, global prompt) without prompting.
By default, existing files are preserved.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-install
Generate the audit context snapshot only. Skip installing the global
private audit agents, the natural-language router instruction, and the
\fI/copilot-devops-audit\fR prompt.
.TP
.B \-\-dry\-run
Display what would be written without creating any files.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Show file names as they are embedded into the context snapshot.
.TP
.B \-\-update\-agent
Refresh the global \fI@DevOpsAudit\fR agent and \fI/copilot-devops-audit\fR prompt
without regenerating the repository-local context snapshot.
.br
This refreshes the private audit worker agents, the natural-language router
instruction, and the slash command.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Display usage information and exit.
.SH FILES
The following repository-local files are created by this command:
.PP
.nf
.github/
├── devops-audit-research.md        # Persistent research cache with freshness metadata
├── devops-audit-context.md         # Snapshot of current config (input to audit)
├── devops-audit-community-seed.md  # Pulled community-cache bootstrap summary
└── devops-audit-community-cache/   # Pulled privacy-safe snapshot JSON files
.fi

The following files are installed globally unless
\fB--no-install\fR is passed:
.PP
.nf
~/.copilot/
├── agents/
│   ├── DevOpsAudit.agent.md           # Orchestrator
│   ├── DevOpsAuditContext.agent.md    # Context subagent
│   ├── DevOpsAuditResearch.agent.md   # Research subagent
│   ├── DevOpsAuditEvaluate.agent.md   # Evaluation subagent
│   ├── DevOpsAuditImplement.agent.md  # Implementation subagent
│   └── DevOpsAuditCommunitySubmit.agent.md  # Post-run community submitter
├── instructions/
│   └── devops-audit-router.instructions.md
├── devops-audit-community-settings.json
├── devops-audit-community-cache/
│   └── community-cache/
│       └── ...
└── skills/
    └── ...

~/Library/Application Support/Code/User/
├── agents/
│   ├── DevOpsAudit.agent.md           # Orchestrator mirror for VS Code discovery
│   ├── DevOpsAuditContext.agent.md    # Context subagent
│   ├── DevOpsAuditResearch.agent.md   # Research subagent
│   ├── DevOpsAuditEvaluate.agent.md   # Evaluation subagent
│   ├── DevOpsAuditImplement.agent.md  # Implementation subagent
│   └── DevOpsAuditCommunitySubmit.agent.md  # Post-run community submitter
└── prompts/
    └── copilot-devops-audit.prompt.md
.fi
.SH WORKFLOW
.SS Typical Usage
.IP 1. 3
Navigate to a git repository with a GitHub Copilot setup:
.RS
.nf
cd ~/projects/my-project
git copilot-devops-audit
.fi
.RE
.IP 2.
Open VS Code Copilot Chat and either ask for a Copilot customization audit in
natural language or type:
.RS
.nf
/copilot-devops-audit
.fi
.RE
.IP 3.
If the user-level router is installed, natural-language audit requests may also route
into the workflow, but that routing is best-effort. The slash command remains the
deterministic entrypoint.
.IP
The orchestrator is expected to reject weak phase outputs. If research or evaluation
is generic, incomplete, or unsupported, the audit should rerun that phase once with
specific deficiencies and then stop rather than continuing with a bad handoff.
.IP
The slash command runs from the current chat session and coordinates the audit by
invoking the named private audit worker agents. The decisive runtime check is whether
those named private audit worker agents are actually invoked for each phase. A routing
failure occurs when the audit falls back to a generic helper or other non-audit worker
for phase execution.
.IP 4.
Review the chat findings and any rewritten \fI.github/\fR files. Re-run periodically to stay current.
.SS Re-running
To refresh the context snapshot and overwrite existing audit files:
.RS
.nf
git copilot-devops-audit --force
.fi
.RE
.SH AUDIT SCOPE
The agent evaluates:
.TP
.B copilot-instructions.md
Signal density, cross-reference validity, vague language, concrete quality bars,
and whether instructions define a real workflow instead of generic filler.
.TP
.B Agent files
Model appropriateness, tool list completeness, workflow clarity, scope boundaries,
handoff design, and whether agent descriptions are specific enough to route correctly.
.TP
.B Instruction files
Workspace relevance, completeness of persistent context, and whether guidance is
concrete enough to produce reliable behavior.
.TP
.B .github hygiene
Stale prompts, agents, instructions, audit artifacts, duplicate guidance,
dead references, and repo-local copies of global audit assets that should be
removed or consolidated.
.TP
.B Research cache freshness
The persistent research cache at \fI.github/devops-audit-research.md\fR should
speed up later audits, but stale evidence must be refreshed or downgraded.
Official docs and release notes take priority over older repo samples or videos.
.TP
.B Misplaced customization files
GitHub customization assets created outside \fI.github/\fR that should live
under \fI.github/\fR. The audit should move them only when the destination is
obvious and no source, script, or documentation updates are required; otherwise
it must escalate the issue.
.TP
.B Overall workflow
Closed-loop coverage (request -> inspect -> plan when needed -> implement -> verify),
missing agent gaps, stale repo-local audit files, workflow drift, and whether
cleanup and relocation decisions stay safe and do not force unrelated source changes.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Full audit with install:
.B git copilot-devops-audit
.TP
Generate context only (no global install):
.B git copilot-devops-audit --no-install
.TP
Refresh global audit tooling only:
.B git-copilot-devops-audit --update-agent
.TP
Force overwrite of existing audit files:
.B git copilot-devops-audit --force
.TP
Preview without writing:
.B git copilot-devops-audit --dry-run
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR git-copilot-quickstart (1),
.BR git-resolve (1),
.BR git-initialize (1)
.SH AUTHOR
git-shell-helpers contributors
