.TH GIT-RESEARCH-MCP 1 "March 2026" "git-research-mcp" "Git Manual"
.SH NAME
git-research-mcp \- MCP server providing web search and knowledge-cache tools
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B node
.I git-research-mcp
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B git-research-mcp
is a zero-dependency Node.js MCP (Model Context Protocol) server that exposes
web search and repo-local knowledge-cache tools over stdio.
It is designed to be registered in a project's
.I mcp.json
and used by AI assistants such as GitHub Copilot.
.PP
Web search is powered by a locally running SearXNG Docker container that
queries Google, Bing, DuckDuckGo, and other engines simultaneously.
No API keys or external credentials are required.
.PP
The knowledge cache operates on Markdown files under
.I .github/knowledge/
in the current working directory, providing persistent per-project research
notes that survive across sessions.
.SH MCP TOOLS
.TP
.B search_web
Search the web via the local SearXNG instance.
Accepts
.IR query ,
.IR num_results " (1\(en10),"
.IR site_filter ,
.IR exact_terms ,
.IR exclude_terms ,
.IR file_type ,
.IR engines ,
.IR language ,
and
.IR time_range .
.TP
.B scrape_webpage
Fetch up to 5 web pages and return cleaned text extracts.
Accepts
.IR urls
and optional
.IR max_chars " (1000\(en20000)."
.TP
.B search_knowledge_cache
Search Markdown files under
.I .github/knowledge/
by keyword.
Accepts
.IR query
and optional
.IR max_results " (1\(en20)."
.TP
.B read_knowledge_note
Read a specific knowledge note by workspace-relative path.
Accepts
.IR path
and optional
.IR max_chars " (500\(en20000)."
.TP
.B write_knowledge_note
Create or overwrite a knowledge note.
Accepts
.IR path ,
.IR content ,
and optional
.IR overwrite .
.TP
.B update_knowledge_note
Replace a section (identified by heading) in an existing note.
Accepts
.IR path ,
.IR heading ,
and
.IR content .
.TP
.B append_to_knowledge_note
Append content to an existing note.
Accepts
.IR path
and
.IR content .
.SH CONFIGURATION
.B git-research-mcp
reads environment variables from a
.I .env
file.  The search order is:
.IP 1. 4
.I ~/.config/git-research-mcp/.env
.IP 2. 4
.I .env
in the same directory as the script (fallback).
.PP
Environment variables already set in the process take precedence over file
values.
.TP
.B SEARXNG_URL
Base URL of the SearXNG instance.
Default:
.IR http://localhost:8888 .
.SH PREREQUISITES
.IP \(bu 2
Node.js >= 18 (uses built-in
.BR fetch ).
.IP \(bu 2
A running SearXNG Docker container:
.RS 4
.EX
docker run -d --name searxng -p 8888:8080 searxng/searxng:latest
.EE
.RE
.SH MCP REGISTRATION
Register in a project's
.I .vscode/mcp.json
(or user-level mcp.json):
.PP
.RS 4
.EX
{
  "servers": {
    "git-research-mcp": {
      "type": "stdio",
      "command": "node",
      "args": ["git-research-mcp"]
    }
  }
}
.EE
.RE
.PP
If
.B git-research-mcp
is installed in a directory on your
.BR PATH ,
the above registration is sufficient.
Otherwise, use the full path in
.IR args .
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Start SearXNG and verify the server responds to an MCP initialize request:
.EX
docker run -d --name searxng -p 8888:8080 searxng/searxng:latest
echo '{"jsonrpc":"2.0","id":1,"method":"initialize"}' | node git-research-mcp
.EE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/git-research-mcp/.env
User-level configuration file (preferred).
.TP
.I .github/knowledge/
Per-project knowledge cache directory (relative to cwd).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR git-copilot-devops-audit (1),
.BR git-upload (1)
