.TH GIT-COPILOT-QUICKSTART 1 "January 2026" "git-copilot-quickstart" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
git-copilot-quickstart \- Set up GitHub Copilot self-iteration workflow for a repository
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B git-copilot-quickstart
[\fIproject-name\fR]
[\fB\-\-minimal\fR]
[\fB\-\-force\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B git-copilot-quickstart
creates a complete GitHub Copilot self-iteration workflow structure in the current
git repository. This includes agents for planning and implementation, instruction
files for TDD and code style, and templates for tracking bugs and plans.
.PP
The generated structure enables a two-agent workflow:
.TP
.B @Plan
Research, diagnose issues, and write executable code plans to .github/plan.md
.TP
.B @Implement
Execute plans step-by-step with documentation-first TDD discipline
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-minimal
Create only essential files (copilot-instructions.md, plan.md, bugs.md, and agents).
Skip detailed instruction files.
.TP
.B \-\-force
Overwrite existing .github/ files without prompting. By default, existing files
are preserved.
.TP
.B \-\-help, \-h
Display usage information and exit.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I project-name
Optional name for the project. If not provided, the script will attempt to
detect it from the git remote URL or use the directory name.
.SH FILES
The following directory structure is created:
.PP
.nf
.github/
├── copilot-instructions.md   # Main Copilot configuration
├── plan.md                   # Current plan (written by @Plan)
├── bugs.md                   # Bug reports for @Plan to investigate
├── agents/
│   ├── Plan.agent.md         # Planning agent definition
│   └── Implement.agent.md    # Implementation agent definition
└── instructions/
    ├── README.md             # Instructions overview
    ├── memory.md             # Living codebase notes
    ├── tdd.md                # TDD workflow guide
    ├── code-style.md         # Style conventions
    └── workspace-hygiene.md  # Cleanup policies
.fi
.SH WORKFLOW
.SS Typical Usage
.IP 1. 3
Run
.B git-copilot-quickstart
in your repository
.IP 2. 3
Customize .github/copilot-instructions.md for your project
.IP 3. 3
Fill in .github/instructions/memory.md with project architecture
.IP 4. 3
Report issues in .github/bugs.md
.IP 5. 3
Invoke @Plan to create executable plans
.IP 6. 3
Invoke @Implement to execute the plan
.SS Agent Workflow
.PP
.B User request
\(->
.B @Plan
(diagnose + write code plan)
\(->
.B @Implement
(execute exactly)
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B git-copilot-quickstart
Auto-detect project name and create full setup.
.TP
.B git-copilot-quickstart "My Project"
Create setup with specified project name.
.TP
.B git-copilot-quickstart --minimal
Create only essential files without detailed instructions.
.TP
.B git-copilot-quickstart --force
Overwrite all existing files in .github/.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success
.TP
.B 1
Error (not in a git repository, invalid options, etc.)
.SH NOTES
The script automatically detects the project type and language, customizing
templates accordingly. Supported project types include:
.PP
.nf
- JavaScript/TypeScript (Node.js, React, Vue, Next.js)
- Python
- Rust
- Go
- C/C++ (CMake, Make)
- Java (Maven, Gradle)
- C# (.NET)
- Ruby
- Elixir
- Shell scripts
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR git-upload (1),
.BR git-get (1),
.BR git-initialize (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Generated by git-copilot-quickstart setup utility.
